# Definitions

Zenon Alphanet features a novel dual coin mechanism `ZNN x QSR` and has four types of participants: `Pillars`, `Sentinels`, `Stakers` and `Delegators`.

## Pillar Node

The backbone of the Zenon Network. They participate in the consensus protocol.

### Pillar Requirements

- You need both `ZNN` and `QSR`

- Slots reserved for Legacy Pillars: `136`

- Amount `QSR` (burned to create the slot): `dynamic` starting with `150000 QSR` for the first slot, `160000 QSR` for the second slot, and so on

- Amount `ZNN`: `15000 ZNN` that will be locked

- Locking period: `83` days

- Revocation window: `7` days

> [Deploy a Pillar now](deploy.md#Pillar_deployment)

### Pillar Rewards

- It receives rewards in `ZNN`, depending on the rank within the network

- You can increase a Pillar's rank by delegating more `ZNN` to it

## Sentinel Node

Full nodes that ensure the stability of the network.

### Sentinel Requirements

- You need both `ZNN` and `QSR`

- Amount `QSR` (locked to create the slot): `fixed` at `50000 QSR`

- Amount `ZNN`: `5000 ZNN` that will be locked

- Locking period: `27` days

- Revocation window: `3` days

> [Deploy a Sentinel now](deploy.md#Sentinel_deployment)

### Sentinel Rewards

- It receives rewards in both `ZNN` and `QSR`

## Staker

Virtual now, in the sense that they are not participating in the consensus protocol; they offer economic stability for the network by locking `ZNN`

### Staker Requirements

- You need only `ZNN`

- Amount `ZNN`: `>1 ZNN`

- Locking period: `dynamic` starting with multiplies of `30 days` (`30`, `60`, `90` and so on)

### Staker Rewards

- It receives rewards in `QSR` depending on the total amount being staked and the duration of the locking period

## Delegator

They delegate `ZNN` to support Pillar Nodes

### Delegator Requirements
  
- You need only `ZNN`

- Amount `ZNN`: Any amount of `ZNN`

- Locking period: `none`

### Delegator Rewards

- It receives rewards in `ZNN` depending on how much the Pillar (you delegated to) is willing to share with you

## Other definitions

- **`Zenon Alphanet`**: the first stage of the NoM rollout, also known as `Network of Momentum Phase 0`

- **`ZNN` (coin)**: required by Pillars, Nodes, and Stakers *to interact and operate* on the network. Used to incentivize the network participants. Scarce.

- **`QSR` (coin)**: the *fuel for the NoM*, powering all services built on the Zenon infrastructure. Used to create Pillars and Sentinel slots. Can be fused.

- **`ZTS` (tokens)**: an *asset tokenization standard for NoM*. All tokens created on NoM must follow the `ZTS` specification.

- **`Plasma` (ionized gas)**: is *generated by fusing* `QSR` or via PoW and is used as *an anti-spam mechanism*. Non-transferable. More `Plasma` means more transactions one can generate.

- **`ZNN x QSR`**: the *dual-coin architecture* based on a mint-and-burn equilibrium adopted by NoM to achieve decentralization and ecosystem prosperity.
